Add documentation for create new copy (#914)
Altinn/altinn-studio-docs: content/app/development/configuration/messagebox/create_copy/_index.en.md

---
title: Create new copy
linktitle: Create copy

> description: This page will be about how to configure the create new copy functionality in an app.

Reviewer: will be about or is about?
```suggestion
description: This page describes how to configure the create new copy functionality in an app.
```

## Configuration

{{% notice info  %}}
The configuration has a retroactive effect and will also apply to previously created instances.
{{% /notice %}}

In addition to turning the functionality on and off, it is possible to exclude data types and data fields in a schema from being copied.

| Name               | Description                                                                      |
| ------------------ | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| enabled            | true/false if its possible to create a copy of an instance.                      |
| excludedDataTypes  | List of DataTypes that should be excluded when a new copy is made.               |
| excludedDataFields | List of fields in the DataModel that should be excluded when a new copy is made. |

### Exclusion of data types

> It is possible to provide a list of data types you don't want to be copied over to the new copy, but which data type that can be copies are already fairly limited. This list of excluded data types have therefor limited effect. The copy feature will only copy data elementes related to a schema/form. This means that no attachments will be copied. I addition to this the data type being copied needs to be associated with the first step in the process for the app.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is possible to provide a list of data types you don't want to be copied over to the new copy, but which data type that can be copied are already fairly limited. This list of excluded data types have therefor limited effect. The copy feature will only copy data elementes related to a schema/form. This means that no attachments will be copied. I addition to this the data type being copied needs to be associated with the first step in the process for the app.
```

### Exclusion of data fields

> The list of excluded fields can be used to indicate which fields you don't want to be copied over to the new data element. The prupose of this feature is to empty fields you know will need to vary from one submission to the next. This could be a field that indicate which quarter of the year the submission is relevant for. Here the app developer will need to consider the different fields, the usage of the app and what would be the best for the user. The selected fields should be indicated with dot-notation in the same way as when doing data binding in layout files.

Reviewer: New copy or new instance? nitpicking 🙈

## Examples

> COnfiguration for turning the *Create new copy* feature on and off.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Configuration for turning the *Create new copy* feature on and off.
```

```json
"copyInstanceSettings": {
    "enabled": true
}
```

Configuration where the Create new copy is activated and where two fields in two separate groups within the model is being excluded.

```json
"copyInstanceSettings": {
    "enabled": true,
    "excludedDataFields": [
        "group1.felt2",
        "group23.felt21"
    ]
}
```
## Programing interface

> During the copying of an instance the logic will perform a method call to **IInstantiationProcessor.DataCreation**. This makes it possible to add programatic changes to the data as it's being copied.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
During the copying of an instance the logic will perform a method call to **IInstantiationProcessor.DataCreation**. This makes it possible to add programatic changes to the data as it's being copied. [Programatic prefill](/app/development/data/prefill/custom/).
```

> Under kopiering av skjema vil logikken utføre metode kall mot **IInstantiationProcessor.DataCreation**. Dette skal gjøre det mulig å gjøre programatiske endringer i data som blir kopiert. [Programatic prefill](/app/development/data/prefill/custom/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
